The repository contains the codes in Java programming language from basics to GUI of Java. The list of experiments under 6 different sections is given:-

1- Java Fundamentals

Program 1:- Write a program to demonstrate ternary operator in java.

Program 2:- Write a Java program to demonstrate local variables.

Program 3:- Write a Java program to demonstrate instance variables.

Program 4:- Write a Java program to demonstrate static variables.

Program 5:- Implement a java program to calculate gross salary & net salary taking the following data. Input: empno, empname, basic Process: DA=70% of basic HRA=30% of basic CCA=Rs240/- PF=10% of basic PT= Rs100/-

Program 6:- Write a Menu driven program in java to implement simple banking application. Application should read the customer name, account number, initial balance, rate of interest, contact number and address field etc. Application should have following methods.

createAccount()
deposit()
withdraw()
computeInterest()
displayBalance()
Program 7:- Write a program to understand continue statement in java.

Program 8:- Write a program to demostrate do while loop in java.

Program 9:- Write a Java program to demonstrate switch case control statement.

Program 10:- Write a program to demostrate instanceof keyword in java.

Program 11:- Write a basic java code of class creation.

2- Classes, objects, Arrays and Strings

Program 1:- Write a java program to demonstarate arraylist

Program 2:- Java Program to define a class to represent a bank account

Program 3:- Write a java program to understand how to take input using BufferedReader class

Program 4:- Write a java program to demonstrate constructor chaining

Program 5:- Write a java program to demonstrate command line arguments in java

Program 6:- Write a Java progrm to demonstrate no parameter constructor.

Program 7:- Write a java program to demonstrate the parameterized constructor.

Program 8:- Write a java program to demonstrate the constructor overloading.

Program 9:- Write a program that would print the information (name, year of joining, salary, address) of three employees by creating a class for Employee.

Program 10:- Write a program that would print the information (name, year of joining, salary, address) of three employees by creating a class for Employee by taking input from user using scanner class.

Program 11:- Write a java program to demonstrate method overloading (overload the method sum)

Program 12:- Write a Java code to illustrate different constructors and methods of String class.(The class name used here is Test).

Program 13:- Write a java program to demonstrate vectors.

Program 14:- Java program to convert primitive into objects and vice versa (Autoboxing example of int to Integer and vice versa)

Program 15:- Write a program to print the area of a rectangle by creating a class named 'Area' having two methods. First method named as 'setDim' takes length and breadth of rectangle as parameters and the second method named as 'getArea' returns the area of the rectangle. Length and breadth of rectangle are entered through keyboard.

3- Inheritance, Packages and Interfaces.

Program 1:- Write a basic java code to undersatand inheritance

Program 2:- Write a java program 1 to demonstrate Interfaces

Program 3:- Write a java program 2 to demonstrate Interfaces

Program 4:- Write a java program 3 to demonstrate Interfaces

Program 5:- Create a user defined package myPackage contains class MyClass.Import the same to PrintNames class in java.

Program 6:- Create a Teacher class and derive Professor/ Associate_Professor/Assistant_Professor class from Teacher class. Define appropriate constructor for all the classes. Also define a method to display information of Teacher. Make necessary assumptions as required.

Program 7:- Create an interface vehicle and classes like bicycle, car, bike etc, having common functionalities and put all the common functionalities in the interface. Classes like Bicycle, Bike, car etc implement all these functionalities in their own class in their own way

4- Exception Handling, Multithreading, Input Output streams

Program 1:- Write java program where user will enter loginid and password as input. The password should be 8 digit containing one digit and one special symbol. If user enter valid password satisfying above criteria then show “Login Successful Message”. If user enter invalid Password then create InvalidPasswordException stating Please enter valid password of length 8 containing one digit and one Special Symbol.

Program 2:- Write a java program to implement basic exception handling

Program 3:- Write a java program to demonstrate finally keyword in exception handling

Program 4:- Write a java program to demonstrate multiple catch block in java

Program 5:- Write a java program to demonstrate throw keyword in exception handling

Program 6:- Write a java program to demonstrate nested try catch.(Class name used here is Except6)

Program 7:- Write a java program to create thread using runnable interface

Program 8:- Java Program to Create Account with 1000 Rs Minimum Balance, Deposit Amount, Withdraw Amount and Also Throws LessBalanceException. It has a Class Called LessBalanceException Which returns the Statement that Says WithDraw Amount(_Rs) is Not Valid. It has a Class Which Creates 2 Accounts, Both Account Deposite Money and One Account Tries to WithDraw more Money Which Generates a LessBalanceException Take Appropriate Action for the Same.

Program 9:- Write a java program to implement FileInputStream.

Program 10:- Write a java program to implement FileOutputStream.

5- GUI programming- I (AWT, Event Handling, Swing)

Program 1:- Write a java program to demonstrate basic event handling

Program 2:- Programs on AWT and Swing components.

Program 3:- Write a Java program to create Student Profile form using AWT controls

Program 4:- Write a program to create a window with four text fields for the name, street, city and pincode with suitable labels. Also windows contains a button MyInfo. When the user types the name, his street, city and pincode and then clicks the button, the types details must appear in Arial Font with Size 32, Italics (class name is saved here with TestingSwing1.java)

6- GUI Programming-II(JavaFX)

Program 1:- Write Java program to draw various shapes on Canvas using JavaFX.